□ Procedure and Object oriented
    Python is a procedure oriented as well as object oriented programming language. In procedure 
     oriented programming languages (e.g. C and Pascal), the programs are built using functions and 
    procedures. But in object oriented languages (e.g. C++ and Java), the programs use classes and 
    objects. 

An object is anything that exists physically in the real world. An object contains behavior. This 
behavior is represented by its properties (or attributes) and actions. Properties are represented by 
variables and actions are performed by methods. So, an object contains variables and methods.

A class represents common behavior of a group of objects. It also contains variables and methods. 
But a class does not exist physically.

A class can be imagined as a model for creating objects. An object is an instance (physical form) of a class. 

□ Interpreted
First, Python compiler translates the Python program into an intermediate code called byte code. 
This byte code is then executed by PVM. Inside the PVM, an interpreter converts the byte code 
instructions into machine code so that the processor will understand and run that machine code. 


□ Extensible
There are other flavors of Python where programs from other languages can be integrated into 
Python. For example, Jython is useful to integrate Java code into Python programs and run on JVM 
(Java Virtual Machine). Similarly IronPython is useful to integrate .NET programs and libraries into 
Python programs and run on CLR (Common Language Runtime). 


□ Embeddable
Several applications are already developed in Python which can be integrated into other 
programming languages like C, C++, Delphi, PHP, Java and .NET. It means programmers can use 
these applications for their advantage in various software projects. 

□ Huge library
Python has a big library that contains modules which can be used on any Operating system.

□ Scripting language
A scripting language uses an interpreter to translate the source code into machine code on the fly 
(while running). Generally, scripting languages perform supporting tasks for a bigger application or 
software. Python is considered as a scripting language as it is interpreted and it is used on Internet 
to support other softwares. 

□ Database connectivity
A database represents software that stores and manipulates data. Python provides interfaces to 
connect its programs to all major databases like Oracle, Sybase, SQL Server or MySql. 

□ Scalable
A program would be scalable if it could be moved to another Operating system or hardware and 
take full advantage of the new environment in terms of performance. 